CAIP-2 (#1)
icvc/icp-namespace: caip2.md

---
namespace-identifier: icp-caip2
title: ICP Namespace - Chains
author: Quint Daenen (@q-uint)
discussions-to: TODO
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2023-05-17
requires: CAIP-2
---

# CAIP-2

*For context, see the [CAIP-2][] specification.*

## Rationale

The CAIP-2 namespace for the Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) provides a standardized system for identifying assets
within the network. It promotes interoperability, efficient querying, and clarity in asset identification, benefiting
developers and users working with decentralized applications and assets on the Internet Computer.

## Syntax

> The ICP namespace is `icp` and the reference is the first 32 bytes of the SHA-256 hash of the root key of the ICP instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ICP namespace is `icp` and the reference is the SHA-256 hash of the root key of the ICP instance.
```

Author: Thanks for catching this! The reference is limited to `reference: [-_a-zA-Z0-9]{1,32}` so it only fits half of the hash in hexadecimal format.

### NameSpace

```text
icp
```

### Reference

```text
737ba355e855bd4b61279056603e0550
```

### ChainId

```text
icp:737ba355e855bd4b61279056603e0550
```

## Resolution Method

You can resolve the root key of the ICP by querying the status endpoint of the ICP API.
The response is CBOR encoded and contains the root key.

```shell
curl "https://icp0.io/api/v2/status" --output - | hexdump -C
```

> Once the root key is obtained, the reference can be calculated by taking the first 32 bytes of the SHA-256 hash of the root key.

Author: ```suggestion
Once the root key is obtained, the reference can be calculated by taking the first 32 characters of hexadecimal representation of the SHA-256 hash of the root key.
```

})()
```

### Golang

```go
package main

import (
	"crypto/sha256"
	"encoding/hex"
	"fmt"
	"net/url"

	"github.com/aviate-labs/agent-go"
)

var icp0, _ = url.Parse("https://icp0.io/")

func main() {
	c := agent.NewClient(agent.ClientConfig{Host: icp0})
	status, _ := c.Status()
	hash := sha256.Sum256(status.RootKey)
	hashHexString := hex.EncodeToString(hash[:])
	fmt.Printf("icp:%s", hashHexString[:32])
}
```

## Test Cases

```text
# icp0.io (root_key = "308182301d060d2b0601040182dc7c0503010201060c2b0601040182dc7c05030201036100814c0e6ec71fab583b08bd81373c255c3c371b2e84863c98a4f1e08b74235d14fb5d9c0cd546d9685f913a0c0b2cc5341583bf4b4392e467db96d65b9bb4cb717112f8472e0d5a4d14505ffd7484b01291091c5f87b98883463f98091a0baaae")
icp:737ba355e855bd4b61279056603e0550
```

## Considerations

### Evolving Network Structure

While there is currently one "mainnet" running the Internet Computer, it is important to acknowledge that the network's
structure may change in the future. To accommodate potential network variations, the CAIP-2 spec recommends using the 
hash of the root key as the reference, rather than solely relying on the term "mainnet." This approach allows for 

> flexibility and adaptation as the Internet Computer continues to evolve and potentially introduces new network configurations.

Author: To be discussed in the WG.

---
namespace-identifier: icp-caip2
title: ICP Namespace - Chains
author: Quint Daenen (@q-uint)
discussions-to: TODO
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2023-05-17
requires: CAIP-2
---

# CAIP-2

*For context, see the [CAIP-2][] specification.*

## Rationale

The CAIP-2 namespace for the Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) provides a standardized system for identifying assets

> within the network. It promotes interoperability, efficient querying, and clarity in asset identification, benefiting

Reviewer 2: What's the model for identifying resources? Do we want the addresses to be valid [URIs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) or [IPFS paths](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#dweb-addressing-in-brief)?

Author: [CAIP 19](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-19.md) describes resources/assets.
The scope of this document is only to define the `chainId`.
